---
title: How we help
subtitle: We help you navigate technological change and its implications for people, business, society and the world around us.
date: 2019-07-24 00:00:00
description: The very nature of technological change means that it is uncharted waters for us all. We exist to help people understand this technological change, and navigate it's implications. <br><br>We do this by combining deep expertise in emerging technology with design and innovation methods.
featured_image: sign.jpg
accent_color: '#4C60E6'
gallery_images:
  - sign.jpg
  - workshop.jpg
  - work-1.jpg
---

We help you navigate technological change and its implications for people, business, society and the world around us.

The very nature of technological change means that it is uncharted waters for us all. We exist to help people understand this technological change, and navigate it's implications.

We do this by combining deep expertise with emerging technology with design and innovation methods.

We offer a safe harbour to navigate this change.

---


> “Simple can be harder than complex: You have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple. But it’s worth it in the end because once you get there, you can move mountains.”


---

#### Image carousels

Here's another gallery with only one column, which creates a carousel slide-show instead.

A nice little feature: the carousel only advances when it is in view, so your visitors won't scroll down to find it half way through your images.

{% include post-components/gallery.html
	columns = 1
	full_width = true
	images = "/images/demo.jpg,/images/demo.jpg,/images/demo.jpg
	"
%}

#### What about videos?

Videos are an awesome way to show off your work in a more engaging and personal way, and we’ve made sure they work great on our themes. Just paste an embed code from YouTube or Vimeo, and the theme makes sure it displays perfectly:

{% include post-components/video.html
	url = "https://player.vimeo.com/video/270725085?color=6c6e95&title=0&byline=0"
	full_width = true
%}

### Pretty cool, huh?

We've packed this theme with powerful features to show off your work.
Why not put them to use on your new website?

<a href="https://jekyllthemes.io/theme/made-portfolio-jekyll-theme" class="button--fill">Get This Theme</a>